So we have class-based components, cuz, if
you're writing a brand new app, you might
use functional components everywhere and
hooks everywhere, so on and so forth.
But if your code base is a few years old,
maybe it's predominantly
class-based components.
If it's a few years old, maybe it's
a mixture between class-based and
functional components.
What do you do,
this whole time we've just ignored the
fact that class-based components exist.
Let's stop ignoring that for a second and
figure out what it might look like.
So, here, we've got a fairly simple,
kinda counter application.
And right now, again,
it doesn't do anything.
What we wanna do is some of
the stuff we saw, if you stay,
we added some state management to it,
and some events.
And we'll see some of the edge
cases in a class-based component.
And then we'll also see how those
edge cases might also apply
in functional components as well,
and how to deal with them.
So the syntax is a little bit different,
because the syntax for
class-based components is
a little bit different.
One of the things is,
we have counter extends component,
at which point here,
we would have two type arguments.
Those angle brackets, they deal
with something called generics, and
we'll talk about a little bit.
You almost think of them as variables for
your type system.
And really, the two things that
it takes is the shape of MyProps,
like we saw in the props argument
in our functional components,
and then also the shape
of our state as well.
Now, clearly, I've red squigglies
cuz those two things aren't defined.
And the code's not blowing up because
again, that's all ripped out of
the JavaScript that comes out
to the other end of TypeScript.
But clearly it's not pleased with me.
So if we wanted to say,
let's have both a prop,
as well as some state they're gonna match.
The state is probably gonna be
the count that seems relatively easy.
The count is going to be
what kind of incident.
So we'll say the CounterProps is
the incident, is a string.
And we'll say,
type CounterState, Is a number.
All right, so far so good.
All right, so now we'll swap those in.
CounterProps.
CounterState.
A red squiggly happens down here where
it's, yeah, you told me that we're gonna
take an incident here but you didn't pass
me an incident, so I need to fix that.
Cool and we'll just pass it in,
Is this.props.
And we'll go ahead and use it, Right here.
All right, so
the props pretty straightforward,
nothing in particularly interesting about
that, but let's also look at the state.
So here, we'll define the state, and we'll
say the type of that is CounterState.
And that count is 0.
All right, and so
now we've got that in place, and
now we can grab the count as well.
This.state, and we'll toss it
in with that 0 is now, Sweet.
So we have that in place.
We do need to get some of
the buttons working, right?
And stuff along those lines.
One of things you might see is,
why did I define it twice?
Generally speaking,
I can get away without it.
If I kinda look here,
you can see the count is number,
there were previous versions where you
might see in a lot of places cuz it helped
with some of the type hinting
in older applications.
So I included it here as well,
so you might see it.
But these days,
if I removed it still worked.
I personally include it cuz I still
think the computer doesn't care, right?
I do think as when you read
large class-based components,
it can be somewhat helpful as well.
So I'd say it's a personal life
decision that I have made.
All right, so let's figure out
how to increment and decrement.
These will be pretty straightforward,
there's nothing particularly
interesting to see here.
I will say this.setState.
And that will take whatever the count is.
And we will go ahead and we'll return
an object where the count is count +1.
All right, decrement,
you can take a lucky guess.
Is gonna subtract 1, and
reset will set it to 0.
Those are the easy ones.
In fact here we can actually say that,
Count is 0.
Nothing particularly special there.
What will be interesting is
this form element, right?
Because here we actually,
the first time so far,
that we are directly interacting
with an element or an event, right?
So far, we've gotten through our time
together without really having to deal
with that.
And that sweet period of innocence is now
over, and we're gonna have to figure out.
Now, I left a hint in some
of the early slides, so
it shouldn't be super
surprising how this goes down.
But let's take a look at it.
And then we'll go ahead and we'll say,
event, we need to know what the event is.
I'm gonna just be blissfully
ignorant of that for a second.
And we'll say, this.setState, and
we'll say count is event.target.value,
right?
And that will work,
except when you say countCount,
we're called changeCount
cuz that makes sense.
TypeScript is angry with us.
TypeScript event is any,
this is cuz we know deep in
our soul that we're gonna
put this on the form when
they hit the Submit button.
Typescript doesn't know that,
TypeScript doesn't have a soul.
And so we need to say, hey,
you made a function on a class property.
I don't know anything about
what's happening here.
So we need to tell it what
event is going to be.
And as I kinda hinted that earlier,
we might say something along the lines of,
We do a ChangeEvent, or
something along those lines.
I've got a Submit button there,
let's go with this one first, and
we'll kinda take a look at it,
momentarily, which is HTMLInputElement.
Here as well, and okay,
now it's angry about count.
Look at that.
One of my favorite things about the web.
It's my single favorite thing, is that
despite the fact that this input field
has the type of number and
only accepts numbers, in the DOM,
the event will still be a string on
the input field, regardless of that.
So we have to coerce into a number,
you can use percent,
I'm just gonna use a plus sign.
But TypeScript has figured out, hey,
I know that the value on InputElements,
when they change, is always gonna be
a string, even if it's the typed number.
So it actually caught that for
us and it's all fair.
Now, since we're just changing it,
this would have theoretically worked like
JavaScript would have coerced it into
a number, and so on and so forth.
But you can see if we added stuff,
you might have accidentally done string
concatenation, or stuff along those lines.
All right, so
we have all of that in place.
Let's just go ahead and
quickly wire this stuff up.
This.increment.
This.decrement, nope,
reset was in the middle.
Despite how I defined the methods.
And this.decrement, and then here
we'll just do it on change for now.
We can talk about how to figure it out for
something else.
I use the one that we used in the example
on the slide earlier just now.
But let's also say this.changeCount, cool.
And we'll also set the value,
To count, as well.
All right, so, it's got a 0 increments,
everyone's favorite,
silly React component.
You can also do it in here and
it changes as well.
So Steve, what do we do here?
We just have to memorize all
of the different APIs for
all the different events, and just commit
it all to memory and do it like that?
My argument is no, my argument is a lot
of the times your tools can help you.
And your tools can guide you
into what the right choice is.
So let's say, hypothetically,
we wanted to do the kinda form
submission to change the number instead.
And we'd have to actually keep some
state of what the form is, and
we're not gonna do that
all the way right now,
cuz that's more of an exercise in React
than learning too much about TypeScript.
But we can hover over this on Submit, and
you can kinda see some of the answers
here, which is you kinda
have it right here.
You can look at, so
what would be the right typing for
a form submission event, right?
Well, instead of this,
up top we had React.ChangeEvent or
just ChangeEvent that I
pulled off the React library.
On HTMLInputElement if we wanted to
make it on form submission, we could
actually see that it's React.FormEvent
on an HTMLFormElement, right?
So a lot of times you do not necessarily
need to go digging in the docs or
anything along those lines.
You can actually just use some of
the tooling available to figure out,
okay, this on submit,
this is what it would expect.
So here is how I need to define
that in my actual class method.